Where are you doing the currying
they're asking on the example?
>> So, on the scan,
let me come back to the code And
[COUGH] Let me pull this up.
So for the record, I'm not doing currying,
I'm doing partial application.
It's a little bit different.
Right here.
So when this event comes in.
Is that.
It is returning this function right here.
Which then because it doesn't
have the position object just yet
until it gets into the scan operator
which once we hit the scan operator,
then it's passing the position here.
And so how you can know that
I'm doing this is that how I'm
partially applying the function is
that if we go down here Increment and
decrement they have three properties and
over here,
I am satisfying two of them.
And what that does is it returns a new
function that I can then call and
execute by only passing
in a single parameter
because the other two are supplied.
And so this is where this is happening
right here is that I'm partially applying
it by satisfying these two parameters,
but it doesn't get executed.
Until we get down to here.
Hopefully, I realize on one hand
is this is kind of an advanced
JavaScript function, but
that is where that's happening.
And [LAUGH] I would say if this
is interesting, what I had to do,
I'm just being completely candid
that I had to really spend,
I would say a good maybe
at least an afternoon and
afternoon wrapping my mind around this.
What I can do is this mark does your
chat except markdown down by any chance.
>> Yeah.
>> Cool.
>> Basic markdown.
>> Yep.
Several marked out.
So give me one second here and
I'm going to just produce
an example in effect.
I don't think there's anything
sensitive about this at all.
So I can go ahead and share it.
And I'll go ahead and
put this in the chat room.
Just so we can surface this as an example.
But this is.
Me attempting to wrap my
mind around how this works.
So I would give this a look and
this is a pretty good
example of how we can
use partial application
functions to do some interesting things.
Where it gets really interesting
is if you go down here,
the stuff that I'm doing with dash title,
title case camel case so
not intended to get pulled off into
destruction but check this example out.
And with that said,
let's move on to the next question.
>> I think one person was kind of confused
on where the lines between Redux and
observables, like where does each of
those libraries cannot come into play?
>> Yeah, so the question is,
what is better observables or Redux?
And the answer is that, they're really
two separate abstraction layers, is that,
you can use observables what I consider
for like micro state management of
that I want to communicate a single
event and I want to manage it.
Redux is good for large scale,
application state management.
And in fact, if you're using
like NGR x that it's Redux,
with an observable or
behavior subject under the hood and so
that it's not typically one or the other.
It comes down to what abstraction layer,
are you trying to solve that complexity.
So observables are great for
communicating very specific things and
managing, state run those specific
things at a very micro level.
As you can see,
we're doing this at the interaction level.
But Redux is really for
managing state at the application level.
So the answer is,
one is not better than the other.
In fact, one actually,
in the case of Vinci RX uses the other
to do all of its heavy lifting.
The request is regarding immutables.
I'd love to hear a short recap on
a reference comparison to react.
Well, again,
we're comparing two entirely separate
things is that really
immutable operations and
the techniques that we use to achieve
immutability exist in React or Angular.
So, the frameworks and
the implementation of
immutable operations
are at the language level.
And so, what's interesting is that
the immutable operations that I use in
these examples, and so I realized we're
using kind of angular as the shell,
but I actually learned these from 10
Abraham off, who was coding in React.
So a lot of what I've shown you very,
very little of this is,
I would say Angular specific at all.
The only reason why we even
have in this case Angular is so
that we can see some of the stuff in
the browser to kind of give it some
more context but Immutable operations
are not framework specific.
Ramda immutable js not framework specific,
observables not
framework specific and TypeScript,
also not framework specific.
And so
this is what I think is really cool.
And why I was super excited to do this
workshop is that even though we have
a little bit of Angular in here what
we've really done is we've pulled out,
the things that you can use no matter
what type script being a big one and
apply that to anything and
apply these techniques to anything.
So not only are we talking about
the techniques, but hopefully,
we started to see some
of the mental models and
some of the things that we can use to
think about programming in general.
So, the iron triad of managing state,
flow control and code volume,
then the access of evil with
hidden state nested logic and
the single responsibility
principle violations, and
then the four elements of
programming being nouns, verbs,
conditions, and iterators.
And then kind of that fifth element
of how do we manage time within
the context of our application, and
this is where I believe observables
does this better than anybody.
And using because I did make the claim and
I stand by it is everything that I do
can fit on a single piece of paper.
And that's it is that is
the simple patterns that
I use to put together,
to build into larger,
large scale enterprise applications.